[Music]
hey how's it going Dave QD here so I
didn't title this video the review of
the Nintendo switch because I don't
think you can really review a product
like this this early on in the product
lifecycle you kind of need the game to
come out and for the system to mature
because products like these are entirely
dependent on how good the games are you
can have really good hardware with
crappy games and the system just sucks
with this system it's too early to say
so I will talk about the hardware for a
little bit and then focus on things that
I think are a little bit more important
so I will say that the system's hardware
is good the screen is good it's about
average brightness I measured it 213 its
speakers are good really punchy for the
device size and the ability to switch it
from console to handheld is nice it's
seamless it works the way it should I
like it the separated controllers is
actually nice that you can swap down
like a slug and play whichever way you
want I like that the battery life is not
bad so I'll hit like two and a half
three hours of battery life fine Zelda
but if I'm playing something less
demanding like shovel knight it'll be
closer to five hours now in terms of
extending battery life I get sent a lot
of battery packs my favorite for the
switch is this thing from Ankur uses
youth PC charge we can use the charger
from the switch to juice it up and this
isn't sponsored or anything this is just
a good battery pack that I really like
for the switch the things that I don't
like the performance feels just adequate
it uses the Tegra x1 chip from Nvidia in
breath of the wild which is the Zelda
game it seems to be pushing the hardware
really close to the limit so there's
quite a bit of terrain loading and this
is the kind of stuff that you see on a
PC when you have to lower your viewing
distance because your hardware is not
good enough to run a program and I get
it in tendo's never about super high in
performance so this is par for the
course I don't like the charging port
location it's on the bottom so it's not
the easiest to play when it's plugged up
the kickstand is also a little flimsy I
mean it gets the job done but you got to
be careful with it but the thing I
dislike the most is the pricing of the
accessories so the device is reasonably
priced but additional controllers
charging stands for those controllers
extra docks for the switch they're
expensive and then the whole thing about
local multiplayer it only lets you
connect
two players two one switch so if you
want to have local 4 player Mario Cart
you need two switches and that's the
bummer ok let's talk about games so at
this point I've had to switch for about
two weeks I beat Zelda it's fantastic I
don't know if it deserves a tenner to
ten but it's really good fast our max is
also pretty good it feels like f-zero
one to switch and super Bomberman are
are terrible I kind of regret buying
them I wish I could get my money back
now before the switch launched I
remember looking at the list of like
confirmed game and I remember not being
very impressed there were a handful of
first party titles so these are games
made by a Nintendo themselves and then
there's a lot of indie titles I don't
know the exact number but it sounds like
50 or 60 percent of the confirmed games
were developed by independent studios so
I was like hmm I don't know because
seriously it doesn't matter how good
your first party titles are you need
solid third party titles but that's them
you're going to fail consumers want them
consumers need them to make a system
growth but now that it's played with
hardware and seeing how good the dock
and the controls were I see the light
the indie games are going to do well
some of these are games already owned on
Steam and I've played them before but
they are a better experience on the
switch they're perfect for TV consoles
and handheld devices or these handheld
devices with physical controls I
legitimately think that indie games will
carry the switch to success
traditionally console development is
more complicated you have to pick up a
dev kit you have to kind of go through a
whole bunch of Hoops go to publish it on
to a console this time Nintendo is doing
what they can to kind of make things a
little bit easier if you have a good
game
you pitched the idea to Nintendo if they
like it and they think it's like a good
fit for the switch to let you develop
and you're set
they've already partnered up with some
really awesome indie Studios like
chuckle fish Double Fine team17 devolver
digital these guys have some really
awesome titles under their belt Nintendo
knows what's up and they're actively
looking for games that are just a really
good fit for the switch so they want
things that are good for TV and handheld
mode they want games that are going to
make use of the thumbsticks they want
games that Nintendo players want to play
and this time unlike the Wii U
developers know exactly what the switch
is for and they're going to tune their
games to fit nicely into this column
so this is a game called ghost song it's
an independent game being developed by
Matt white a friend of mine I've played
the demos and I think it's going to be a
fantastic Metroid style game when it's
finished it's not a switch game right
now it's being built for Steam but this
is the caliber of game that any
developers can bring to the market right
now
it plays way better with a controller
and the game like this is exactly the
type of third-party content that
Nintendo trying to deliver really good
stuff that people actually want to play
[Music]
the important third-party titles are
these indie games things like binding of
issac shovel knight terraria these are
games that have very strong followings
and now they're going to be available on
a $300 console with standardized
physical controls to player capability
right out of the box and Nvidia chipset
that's like relatively simple to program
for and support by unity like that's one
of the most common 3d flash 2-d game
development tools right now it's this is
seriously a developer's dream people are
going to make some really awesome games
of the system
[Music]
okay so the Nintendo switch has pretty
good hardware it's not like
earth-shattering performance but it's
got a couple tricks up its sleeve and I
like it the accessories are expensive
but in the end of the day the only thing
that matters are the games and I think a
year from now we'll have a handful of
first party Nintendo games that are
pretty solid but a huge selection of
third-party titles and I think a big
part of those are going to be
independent games but they're going to
be good that's the end of this video
hope you guys enjoyed it
thumbs we liked it subs we loved it I'll
see you guys next time